What we're gonna talk about next
is all the promises I made to you
about testing things and
validating things that work the way do.
What if you can pull a lot of what you
have in your test suite because we're all
maybe you're better than me.
We're all really good at writing unit
tests we're kinda good at writing those
large like playwright
tests component tests.
And what if we could use storybook
to make testing easier, right and
have, that things actually
work the way that we want.
And there's a lot of really great
functionality that will take the tests
that you hate writing the most.
You're gonna like them, but
they're gonna be a lot better.
And we'll show some of
the tooling involved so
you can make sure you're not breaking
stuff cuz two components, fine.
60 components not fine, right?
Especially if you've structured things
do large scale color changes and
stuff like that.
Kinda one of things we're talking about is
there's I've talked a lot of stuff about
this idea of testing our components and
stuff along those lines.
Yeah, there's a lot of visual tests.
There's also this idea of interaction,
there's some things that call out button,
right?
All right, fine, right?
I can look at those and I can see them.
But there's a lot of our UI that
you have to actually have to touch.
These will always vary somewhat, right.
And could you just write stories that
put the component in that state?
You could argue a lot of times you should,
right, cuz that's easy.
But sometimes, there's no real way to say,
hey, if the input field is disabled,
they shouldn't be able to click on it and
type into it, right.
You can't really set
the scene like that too much.
If they click on this thing or
a little to do list,
okay, they enter something in and
hit enter.
I would like to see it on the page, right?
All those things are one
level kind of above and
beyond what you might see in
a just regular old story.
So we got a whole bunch of different
use cases that we could do here.
Let's consider this text area
that is effectively an old school
Twitter textbox where it should
at least get yell at you and
change its state in the situation
where you go under 140 characters.
You go hey Steve, isn't it 280 now listen,
put it 140 this textbox was annoying
enough I regret that it wasn't 10.
So leave me alone.
But we wanna be able to simulate that,
okay that we can that it does
change state as we go in there and
that this count reflects the number
of things in there as well.
Luckily, the integration of this
in storybook is shockingly easy.
So, let's take a look at it.
That text component does exist.
So, we've got a task list that will
play around with anyway, later.
But we've got this text area,
and it's mostly set up already.
And what we wanna do is actually
create some stories around it.
So let's go ahead and we'll say yeah
called default, like that suggestion.
Let's see what it looks like in
storybook with no args because yeah,
it's not really a primary text area.
It's just like a text area
if we didn't do anything and
here it exists now, there's my text area.
Okay, I could I've got
disabled not disabled,
required to get the font little dot,
that's great.
Some placeholder tags, all that kind
of fun stuff, it's all wired up.
It's got a dark mode, whatever.
So you can go look at that code if
you just wanna see in other examples
that is in there for
you as an exercise reader.
But we want to create a second story and
say export car show what the disabled
one litre so we'll go make that since,
the auto complete was there for me.
But what I want is export cost with count,
and that'll be a story as well.
I'm just hijacking the max length,
which is a built-in
property on text areas that
I don't think does anything.
Things that I learned preparing for
this is how input fields you
can have a validity check?
Blowing past the max length on
a text area does not trigger
the DOM's invalid pseudo selector.
So that's fun.
So we'll say 140 characters and
what I should have then is you
notice the space in here as well.
So if you use a cyclic Pascal case
if you start with a capital letter.
We've got that in place where
we get this little count here,
and ideally big count goes up, and
this is where I regret 140 characters.
The whole thing should, we'll take
a look at why that part didn't turn red.
It does in dark mode.
It's the way you need visual regression
tests that you didn't undo to get back to
the starting point of the workshop.
But yeah, so, [LAUGH] you know what?
We'll work on it in dark mode.
We'll put it back in there, too.
So it turns red, but at least these turn
red down here as well, so on and so forth.
We'll debug that in a moment,
that's annoying.
So what we wanna do is to say, hey,
one want to type in this field and
like that count should reflect
whatever you typed in there, right?
To if they blow past the amount,
I wanna validate that,
it does have the additional CSS
classes that I'm expecting.
And I don't want it to context switch and
deal with also then
writing component tests.
Because those are always
the ones that I skip.
But also the idea of breaking this stuff
out in storybook means that it's also
isolated, easy to component test as well.
And so we've got the storybook test and
you see I have some basic things in here.
I think that it is true
that storybook seven and
earlier used testing library,
I think eight might be
something different.
It doesn't really matter,
it's abstracted away.
It's under at storybook test and what it
is under the hood is not super important.
But if you've ever used something
like testing library, which is
framework agnostic in so far that there is
a flavor for most of the puppy frameworks.
Including just a regular, it is a set
of libraries for go find the selector,
and then simulate a click so
on and so forth.
So, we've got to expect, which is if
you've ever used any testing library,
it does exactly what you think it does.
Within just help scope the selector and
user event simulates user events, okay.
So let's start with
the easiest possible thing.
We're gonna say play.
And there are you have container in here.
I think you've also got
what args were passed in.
What are types,
you get a lot of metadata, as well.
I don't actually want the container
I want the canvas element.
That is the playground that I am in,
right.
So we have that and we'll say is canvas
equals that within canvas element.
So this is now everything I now we're only
looking Inside of our storybook canvas.
So what we'll do here is we'll say,
don't ruin the surprise,
const text area equals
canvas get by role text box,
text areas have the aria role text box.
If you wanna ask me why isn't text area,
I don't make the rules around here,
I just tell you the answers.
And let's just start by
doing something really easy.
We'll go and just to demonstrate this sure
we'll do a weight user event dot type.
And if you're not running a test and
you're not waiting for to be filled in,
you can skip the await but
it's not hurting anyone.
But If you do forget the await
asked me how I know this,
your tests will fail and you will lose
at least 10 minutes of your life.
Before you remember why your tests fail
when it's clearly in the box because
JavaScript is hard and
asynchrony is weird.
This is Ruby,
we wouldn't have these problems, but
we'd have a different set of problems.
Cool, and you look back at our story,
the cursor is flashing in there, right?
Because we went in there,
we typed, hello world.
I'm gonna, if you watch very carefully,
you can see the letters go in there,
right?
And so
it is simulating that user event and
who thinks that passes
an accessibility test?
And so we've got that in there as well.
So we've got 13.
That feels right.
Do I really wanna count the number
of letters in hello world?
I do, so what we'll say
is cons input value is hello world.
I'll put that in there.
I don't like magic numbers.
And we'll say that we expect
the we need to count and
one thing that I know
that you don't know that
I know is that the actual count itself,
I have this data dash test ID length.
So this is not magic.
I put a data attribute to select it
easily with my tests in here and so
what I'll say is cons
count equals canvas dot
get by test id length, there we go.
I am better at typing when I'm not
standing on a podium I promise you.
Cool, and then we wanna say that
we expect that count to have,
it's only that to have text content
that is equal to input value.
And because Typescript has saved
my butt so many times, but
when it gets angry at me, it's like,
lengths that could actually be undefined,
I'm, I know that it's not,
it's a DOM node.
So we'll say, too strange to
keep Typescript happy with me.
And what should happen now is if we go
in here and we look at interactions,
first of all,
if it couldn't find the text area,
the test would fail everything that you
do technically counts as an expectation.
So you can see that,
it did successfully type in there, right?
And so if he couldn't type in there for
some reason like your test would fail but
then to it did go look in there and
saw that the text count was in fact,
correct, right?
So now you can refactor away and
this is not even really just the design
of this is the functionality, right?
And this test will run every single time
you change the code in your browser,
right?
And again,
if you were not on a 14-inch laptop,
zoomed in to an unreasonable,
to a text resolution or
screen resolution from 2008, then you
would be able to work side by side.
But, you can also do things
like go back a step and
step through everything as well.
Really kind of a powerful set of tooling.